---
title: "Making the (subjectively) perfect tiramisu."
---

This tiramisu serves about 10 people.

# 48 hours prior: Preparing the ladyfingers

We'll use ladyfingers as the biscuit basis of our tiramisu. While you can buy
pre-made ladyfingers and skip this step entirely, I've found that the texture
of the tiramisu happens to be better when using home-made biscuits.

For ~30 ladyfingers:

---

Ingredients:

* 5 egg yolks
* 25cl egg whites
* 125g granulated (white) sugar
* 125g plain flour
* 90g icing sugar

---

1. **Remove tray(s) from oven and place baking paper on it**.
2. **Pre-heat oven** at 180°C.
3. **Separate egg yolks from whites**, adjust white quantity with more eggs if needed so that you have exactly 25cl. Put a pinch of salt in the whites and move them in the fridge for now.
4. **Beat the yolks with the granulated sugar** with a whisk, until the resulting mix is light yellow and bubbly.
5. **Prepare a Meringue** with the egg whites -- Beat the whites until stiff, but add continously the icing sugar to the mix mid-beating.
6. **Add 1/3 of the Meringue to the yolk/sugar mix** and mix throroughly with a whisk so that the result is homogeneous.
7. **Add the rest of the Meringue to the mix**, and combine with a rubber spatula. Do not stir too much, otherwise the result will be liquid.
8. **Place the mix into a pastry bag with a medium/large nozzle** and dispense mix on the baking paper in the oven tray, in the form of ladyfingers. If you do not have a pastry bag, you can also use two large spoons: use one to scoop some mix, and the other to help scrape the mix in the first spoon.
9. **Put some extra icing sugar in a sieve** and sprinkle it on top of the uncooked biscuits.
10. **Put the tray in the oven and bake for about 15 minutes**. The biscuits should be puffy and have a nice light brown color.
11. **Leave the biscuits rest for a day**.

# 24 hours prior: Making the tiramisu

Ingredients:

* ~30 ladyfingers
* 8 eggs
* 160g granulated (white) sugar
* 500g mascarpone
* 30cl strong coffee
* 3-4cl Strega liqueur

1. **Brew coffee and add Strega**. The stronger the coffee is, the better: either brew multiple expressos, or filter multiple times, or use strong soluble coffee. Adjust the quantity of liqueur to taste.
2. **Soak each ladyfinger in coffee**. The biscuit should be moist, but not drenched -- remove excess coffee with paper towels.
3. **Separate egg yolks from whites**.
4. **Beat the yolks with the granulated sugar** with a whisk, until the resulting mix is light yellow and bubbly.
5. **Gradually add the mascarpone to the mix**. The result should be homogeneous.
6. **Beat the egg whites until stiff**.
7. **Gradually add the egg whites to the mix** and combine with a rubber spatula.
8. **Cover the bottom of the pan with ladyfingers**.
9. **Add a layer of mix on top of the biscuits**, using half of the mix.
10. **Repeat steps 8 and 9 once more**.
11. **Cover the pan with cling film and let rest in fridge for 24 hours**.

# Serving the tiramisu

Ingredients:

* Raw cocoa powder

---

1. **Take the tiramisu out of the fridge** right before serving.
2. **Sprinkle cocoa powder on top** using a sieve.
3. **Decorate and serve**.
